Hamas says Israeli air strikes have
killed two more hostages the group was
holding in Gaza the islamist militia
says negotiations to free the captives
are being undermined by Israeli plans
for a ground assault on Rafa gaza's
Southernmost city is Sheltering more
than a million displaced Palestinians
but Israel says it's also a refuge for
Hamas Fighters many countries classify
Hamas as a terrorist
organization these displaced
Palestinians are looking for help from
the other side of the border from
Rafa as they praise for a threatened
ground offensive from the Israeli
military today I'm here displaced on the
border with Egypt I have a tent on this
area we ask God that our Egyptian
brother can facilitate the delivery of
Aid to the displaced people the
situation is
catastropic over a million displaced
people are living living in gaza's
Southernmost city many of them in
makeshift tents is defense Israeli Prime
Minister Benjamin Netanyahu has said his
military is working on an evacuation
plan for Palestinians to leave the area
we're going to do it we're going to get
the remaining Hamas terrorist battalions
in Rafa which is the last Bastion but
we're going to do it and in this I agree
with the Americans uh we're going to do
it while providing safe passage for the
uh civilian population so they can leave
the UN EU and eight groups have already
warned that the military operation in
overcrowded Rafa would have catastrophic
consequences for displaced Palestinians
it's unclear where they are supposed to
go
next journalist Sammy sule joins me from
Jerusalem Sammy an offensive interfa
could mean High civilian casualties so
give us a deeper sense of why Israelis
believe a push there is is so
crucial yeah indeed it will be very uh
bloody and I can tell you that natany
himself has said that if Israel will not
enter Rafa then there will be no Victory
so the whole outcome of the war depends
on the capturing of
Rafa um rafah is the last stronghold of
Hamas in the Gaza Strip and once Israel
will take over Rafa it will be able to
say that it has destroyed the chain of
command all the different battalions of
Hamas there are four remaining
battalions according to the Israeli
military inside Gaza on top of that it's
the border between Gaza and Egypt and
Israel is claiming that there are still
tunnels that link the Gaza Strip with
Egypt and therefore it needs to take
over this area so is to destroy any kind
of tunnel that would give any Lifeline
to
Hamas uh so these are the kind of main
issues that Israel is talking about the
importance of RA so as far as the IDF is
concerned it is an imperative um
Israel's closest Partners have expressed
serious concern as you well know but
none of that appears to be shaking
Israel's resolve what's the sense about
how far Netanyahu is willing to distance
himself from Israel's
allies I think if you look at
netanyahu's history his relations with
the United States his relations with the
Europeans he's used to being in this
position in which there is deep disagree
agreement on various issues if we take
the example of the Israeli settlements
in the occupied West Bank Israel has
been building settlements the United
States Administration has been
condemning these settlements and yet
this project has been growing so clearly
the administration doesn't view I I the
situation in Gaza the same way that
Israel views it but nevertheless
Israelis most of them are not too
concerned with America they're saying
that so long that the Americans will be
sending in the Munitions uh this kind of
rhetoric that we hear from the Americans
is not going to change the battlefield
and they're reminding that U the
secretary of state was here in November
he said that the war would last for a
few more weeks and here we are already
in February and the war is going on so
it seems that some of these statements
at least coming from the Americans are
for internal consumption for the
Democrats who are not pleased with the
way the war is going right Sammy this
weekend families have been calling for
the government to make a deal to bring
the hostages back safely and then there
are protests calling for the government
to step down at this stage in the
conflict is nety who still losing
support among ordinary
Israelis yeah well he has lost a lot of
support um following the 7th of October
Fiasco and most of the public thinks
that he should not be uh the Prime
Minister and uh it's it's clear now that
he's not putting the hostages as a top
priority today he gave a speech talking
in a military base of the uh engineer
corpse and he did not even mention as
the as one of the goals of the war the
hostages the release of the hostages so
it's very clear that the families of
their hostages and their supporters
they're very very frustrated uh with the
Netanyahu because they believe that uh
they will not come back alive and is
Samy CLE in Jerusalem many thanks
Sammy